Hong Kong Baptist University
General Education Programme
Level 3 GE Capstone Course Proposal
Part I
Course Title

Taking a Stand:
Recommendations

Offering Department

Hosting Department:

Turning

Research

Insights

into

Policy

Language Centre

Collaborating Department(s)/Programme(s)/
Office(s):

Department of English
Language and Literature

Experiential Learning

Course Type
Medium of Instruction

English

Course Delivery
i.

Hours

Lecture: 3
Hours per week; Tutorial:
Experiential: 13 Hours in total

ii.

Quota of students per section

iii. No. of sections prepared to offer per year

28

Students

4

Section(s)

Hours per week

Mapping of SDGs
Please refer to the details of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and check the corresponding box(es) of
SDGs aligned with this course.
SDG 1 ☐

SDG 2 ☐

SDG 3 ☒

SDG 4 ☒

SDG 5 ☐

No Poverty

Zero Hunger

Good Health & Wellbeing

Quality Education

Gender Equality

SDG 6 ☐

SDG 7 ☐

SDG 8 ☐

SDG 9 ☐

SDG 10 ☒

Clean Water &
Sanitation

Affordable & Clean
Energy

Decent Work &
Economic Growth

Industry, Innovation &
Infrastructure

Reduced Inequalities

SDG 11 ☒

SDG 12 ☒

SDG 13 ☒

SDG 14 ☐

SDG 15 ☐

Sustainable Cities &
Communities

Responsible Consumption &

Climate Action

Life below Water

Life on Land

SDG 16 ☒

SDG 17 ☐

Peace, Justice &
Strong Institutions

Partnerships for the Goals

Production

Part II
1

Aims and Objectives
This course aims to help our students engage with public discourse on important social problems facing our
local and global society. It introduces an interdisciplinary approach to analyzing social problems, encouraging
students to draw upon research insights and knowledge from different disciplines and share their insights with
stakeholders such as the Hong Kong (HK) government, NGOs and the public. Addressing a range of social
issues facing Hong Kong and the wider global community, students learn to glean research insights from
academic literature, to collect information from the HK government under the Code on Access to Information
and join the debate on such issues through experiential learning activities such as discussion with
representatives from NGOs and/or community members and writing for the media. Working collaboratively
in small groups, students will critically review the policies and decisions made by the HK government and
propose new solutions for social problems taking into account findings from their own research together with
literature on the issues and/or policy ideas from other countries or cities. Students will eventually develop
insightful and persuasive arguments on the issues and share their findings with the stakeholders including the
HK government and the public through a variety of channels, including writing letters to the editor and opinion
pieces in the newspapers, submitting reports to the HK government and engaging members of the community
through online and offline activities. Moreover, the experiential learning provided by this course will facilitate
meaningful connections between students and practitioners in the field to explore internship and/or
employment opportunities.

Intended Social Issues Addressed:
Students may work on social issues of their choice that
1) involve the policies and decisions made by the Hong Kong government OR
2) include some local NGOs and community members as stakeholders who could share insiders’
perspectives with our students AND
3) have been addressed in the research literature with insights that are worth sharing with the public

Course Intended Learning Outcomes (CILOs)
CILO By the end of this course, students should be able to:
Synthesise and critically analyse data/information/viewpoints gathered from various stakeholders
CILO 1 including the HKSAR government, NGOs, and the public regarding social problems, so as to develop
and support actionable policy recommendations;
Collaborate with peers from multiple backgrounds and draw on research articles from multiple
CILO 2 disciplines to develop wide-ranging insights into the discourses and power relations informing social
problems facing Hong Kong and global society;
Recognise and evaluate value principles in public discourse so as to make more informed and
CILO 3 knowledgeable decisions in the development of rhetorical strategies for arguments on pressing social
issues;
Apply knowledge and insights gained from research activities by writing for the public as informed
CILO 4 citizen-scholars via newspaper articles, reports to the HK government and social media campaigns.

2

Teaching and Learning Activities (TLAs)
Type of TLA

CILO Alignment

1. Experiential Learning Project
Students will work in small groups to develop insights and arguments on a particular
social issue facing Hong Kong via research and community engagement. This will not
only involve a review of relevant literature but also collecting insights and data from the
government, community leaders (NGOs) and/or community members through
fieldwork. They will share their findings with stakeholders and the public through
various channels such as writing letters to the Editor, opinion pieces in
newspapers/online media, social media campaigns and policy recommendation reports.
Interactive lectures and consultation sessions will help guide the students towards the
effective realisation of their project. The following TLAs are also in this way directed
towards the processes and outcomes of this project.

CILO 1 ☒

2. Seminars and guest speaker forums
Seminars on current social issues in Hong Kong which will also include presentations
by guest speakers, e.g. NGO representatives, to share their values, experiences and
perspectives. Some seminars may be delivered as video screencasts or podcasts through
a flipped classroom approach so the classroom contact hours can be spent on small group
discussion. Students will prepare for these through research; by reading assigned
materials and outlining their responses and thoughts via discussion questions. During the
seminars, the students will share their ideas on these issues, interact with guest speakers
and identify areas for further investigation for their own projects.

CILO 1 ☐

3. Writing workshops using digital tools and social editors
Writing workshops will be held for students to practice the skills of contacting
government and community leaders (NGO) and members of the public, and, in addition,
writing persuasively. Group writing projects will be facilitated by social editors such as
Google docs and online platforms such as Padlet and Google sites. These activities will
be channelled into building an online collaborative community of “writers for the
public” where materials and resources will be shared e.g. a Facebook group.

CILO 1 ☐

4. Community engagement activities
Students will set up booths on campus, for example on the Li Promenade, to share their
finished projects with members of the university community and the public. Students
will showcase the work done for their project, e.g. newspaper articles, reports for the
government, pictures from field trips, and records of online engagement.

CILO 1 ☐

3

CILO 2 ☐
CILO 3 ☐
CILO 4 ☒

CILO 2 ☒
CILO 3 ☒
CILO 4 ☐

CILO 2 ☒
CILO 3 ☒
CILO 4 ☐

CILO 2 ☒
CILO 3 ☐
CILO 4 ☒

Assessment Methods (AMs)
Type of AM

Weighting

CILOs to be
addressed
CILO 1 ☒

Description of Assessment Tasks
Small groups of students will work together to write
a short argumentative research paper that will
critically review the government policies and offer
policy recommendations; the paper can then be
adapted into different forms as reports to the
government, letters to the editor, social media posts
and oral presentations. Students should partner with
Generative AI at various stages of writing the paper
and document such collaboration in the reflective
learning journals.
Students may choose to engage the community in
different ways including writing for the newspaper,
preparing reports for the government, designing and
launching persuasive campaigns on social media;
students should work in groups to build the
community engagement portfolios to document their
roles in the team efforts of engaging the community.
The portfolio should include the following four
compulsory items:
1. Evidence of requesting information from the
government and/or community leaders/members
2. Evidence of writing for the public, e.g. newspaper
articles, government reports or social media posts
3. An infographic or a video clip making the
argument
4. A detailed account of how Generative AI has
been used to support students’ work which may
inspire the audience to consider adopting the new
technology and enhance the AI literacy of the
community

CILO 2 ☒
Argumentative
Research Paper
(group)

25%

CILO 3 ☒
CILO 4 ☐

CILO 1 ☒
CILO 2 ☒
CILO 3 ☐
CILO 4 ☒

Community
engagement portfolio
(Group)

40%

Students should keep a multimodal learning journal
through writing, voice-recording and/or filming to
reflect on the learning processes with the assistance
of Generative AI while their partnership with AI
should be one of the central themes to be addressed
in the reflective account. The drafts of these journals
should be shared in a discussion board in Moodle
where peer learning can take place. Students will be
evaluated based on the depth of their reflection as
well as the breadth of their contribution to the
discussion board.

CILO 1 ☐
CILO 2 ☒
Reflective learning
journal (individual)

CILO 3 ☒
35%

CILO 4 ☒

4

Part III
Alignment with the Intended Learning Outcomes of the GE Programme (PILOs)
i. The course DOES NOT have to meet all PILOs.
ii. CILO(s) should be mapped with at least PILO 5.

PILO 1

Use historical and cultural perspectives to gain insight into the contemporary issues;

PILO 2

Apply various value systems to decision-making in personal, professional, and social/political
situations;

PILO 3

Use data for the purposes of analyses and to make recommendations for strategic
implementation of policy on social, economic and business, cultural, and political affairs;

PILO 4

Relate their majors with interdisciplinary thematic knowledge;

PILO 5

Demonstrate connections among a variety of disciplines to gain insight into contemporary
personal, professional, and community situations.

Learning
Outcomes
PILO 1
PILO 2
PILO 3
PILO 4
PILO 5

Please indicate alignment by checking the appropriate boxes
CILO 1

CILO 2

CILO 3

CILO 4

☒
☐
☒
☒
☒

☐
☐
☐
☒
☒

☐
☒
☐
☐
☒

☐
☒
☐
☐
☒

5

Course Contents in Outline
Topic
WEEKS ONE - TWO: Introductory Sessions

Hours

WEEK ONE - The Hong Kong SAR Government (TLA: 1)
This topic introduces the overall structure and organisation of the Hong Kong SAR government.
It includes the principles of transparency and accountability of the government, communication
and complaint channels, the Ombudsman, Code on Access to Information, and the judicial
review of government decisions. Students will learn how to initiate a conversation with various
government departments and bureaus and the community (incl. NGOs and members of the
public) regarding specific social issues through applying the skills of analyzing and interpreting
quantitative and qualitative data from the government and other sources. In groups, students will
begin to identify a social issue they would like to work on and draw up a plan for their project.
Reif, L. (2014). The Ombudsman, Good Governance, and the International Human Rights
System. Leiden, Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.
Head, B. W. (2007). Community Engagement: Participation on Whose Terms? Australian
Journal of Political Science, 42(3), 441–454. https://doi.org/10.1080/10361140701513570

3 hours

Wadham, J., Harris, K., & Peretz, G. (2011). Blackstone’s Guide to the Freedom of Information
Act 2000 (4th ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
WEEK TWO - Media and research literature on social issues (TLA: 1)
Students will explore the complex relationships between the public and academic communities,
shaped by the ways social and research issues are debated in mass-media. This will provide
students the opportunity to investigate how researchers could influence the public opinions
through media engagement. Students will also consider the challenges of communicating
research insights to the public with limited background knowledge and explore strategies and
skills for effective communication with the public.
Irwin, A., & Wynne, B. (2003). Misunderstanding Science?: The Public Reconstruction of
Science and Technology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Simon, D., Kuhlmann, S., Stamm, J., & Canzler, W. (2019). Handbook on Science and Public
Policy. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing.
Hillier, D. (2016). Communicating Health Risks to the Public: A Global Perspective. New York:
Routledge.
Vannini, P. (Ed.). (2012). Popularizing Research: Engaging New Genres, Media, and

3 hours

Audiences. Peter Lang.
McLaughlin, T. (1996). Street Smarts and Critical Theory: Listening to the Vernacular.
University of Wisconsin Press.
WEEKS THREE - EIGHT: Seminars on broad social issues and forums with guest speakers/ Data
Analysis/Writing Workshops
WEEK THREE - Education and cultural affairs (TLA: 1,2)
This seminar will focus on the HK government’s attempt to reform the school education, to
enhance the services of the public libraries and to renovate museums in the age of digital
technologies.
Hille, R. T. (2018). The New Public Library: Design Innovation for the Twenty-First Century.
6

3 hours

London & New York: Routledge.
Tse, T. K.-C., & Lee, M. H. (2016). Making Sense of Education in Post-Handover Hong Kong:
Achievements and challenges. London & New York: Taylor & Francis.
Hossaini, A., & Blankenberg, N. (2017). Manual of Digital Museum Planning. Lanham,
Maryland: Rowman & Littlefield.
WEEK FOUR - Public health and environment (TLA: 1,2)
This seminar will focus on the HK government’s policies for providing public health care
services for an ageing population with the limited resources and the government’s long-term
decarbonization strategies under the framework of the Paris Climate Agreement.
Heston, T. F. (Ed.). (2018). eHealth: Making Health Care Smarter. London: IntechOpen.

3 hours

Harvey, H., Orvis, R., & Rissman, J. (2018). Designing Climate Solutions: A Policy Guide for
Low-Carbon Energy. Washington: Island Press.
WEEK FIVE - Data Analysis workshop (TLA: 1,3)
This data analysis workshop will focus on applying the skills of analyzing and interpreting
quantitative and qualitative data from the government and other sources to their projects.

3 hours

FORUM ONE (TLA: 1,2)
A presentation and discussion forum with invited guest speakers representing local NGOs,
political groups and the government.

2 hours

WEEK SIX - Housing and transportation (TLA: 1,2)
In this seminar, students will explore the housing and transportation policies of the HK
government and critically review the specific issues related to the buses, MTR, taxis, transitional
housing, land supply for housing.
Wong, Y. C. R. (2015). Hong Kong Land for Hong Kong People: Fixing the Failures of Our
Housing Policy. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press.
Finger, M., & Audouin, M. (Eds.). (2018). The Governance of Smart Transportation Systems:
Towards New Organizational Structures for the Development of Shared, Automated, Electric
and Integrated Mobility. Cham, Switzerland: Springer.

3 hours

WEEK SEVEN - Smart cities and constitutional affairs (TLA: 1,2)
Students will explore the evolution of HK into a smart city in the midst of the political
movements focusing on the use of technologies in law enforcement, organizing and participating
in protests as well as the concerns of privacy for smart city residents.
Forrest, G. C. (2016). Police Technology: 21st-Century Crime-Fighting Tools. New York: The
Rosen Publishing Group, Inc.
Cropf, R., A. (2016). Ethical Issues and Citizen Rights in the Era of Digital Government
Surveillance. Hershey, PA: IGI Global.
WEEK EIGHT - Writing workshop (TLA: 1,3)
This writing workshop will introduce rhetorical strategies in media discourse, persuasive
communication in social media and value principles in argumentation that students can apply to
write persuasively for their projects.

7

3 hours

3 hours

FORUM TWO (TLA: 1,2)
A presentation and discussion forum with invited guest speakers representing local NGOs,
political groups and the government.

2 hours

WEEKS NINE - THIRTEEN: Consultations, Presentations and Reflections
WEEK NINE - Consultations (TLA: 1,3)
Groups will meet with their instructor to bring their final project into a presentable state

3 hours

WEEK TEN - Consultations (TLA: 1,3)
Groups will meet with their instructor to bring their final project into a presentable state

3 hours

WEEK ELEVEN - Community Outreach (TLA: 1,4)
Students will set up and man on-campus outreach booths about their projects, to engage with
their peers and the public.

3 hours

WEEK TWELVE - Community Outreach (TLA: 1,4)
Students will set up and man on-campus outreach booths about their projects, to engage with
their peers and the public.

3 hours

WEEK THIRTEEN - Course Reflection (TLA: 1)
A seminar will be held to reflect on the experiences and outcomes of the course.

3 hours

Subject to the availability of resources and other constraints, video lectures may be provided to address some
of the topics above through a flipped classroom mode. The classroom contact hours may be allocated for small
group discussion and tutorial meetings to help students work on their projects.
Total:

8

43 Hours

Key References (up to 10)
1.
2.
3.

4.

5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Blanke, H.-J., & Perlingeiro, R. (Eds.). (2018). The Right of Access to Public Information: An
International Comparative Legal Survey. Retrieved from
https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783662555521
Alcántara-Rubio, L., Valderrama-Hernández, R., Solís-Espallargas, C., & Ruiz-Morales, J. (2022).
The implementation of the SDGs in universities: A systematic review. Environmental Education
Research, 28(11), 1585–1615. https://doi.org/10.1080/13504622.2022.2063798
Fairclough, I., & Fairclough, N. (2013). Political Discourse Analysis: A Method for Advanced
Students (1st edition). New York: Routledge.
Lowe, M., Adlakha, D., Sallis, J. F., Salvo, D., Cerin, E., Moudon, A. V., Higgs, C., Hinckson, E.,
Arundel, J., Boeing, G., Liu, S., Mansour, P., Gebel, K., Puig-Ribera, A., Mishra, P. B., Bozovic,
T., Carson, J., Dygrýn, J., Florindo, A. A., … Giles-Corti, B. (2022). City planning policies to
support health and sustainability: An international comparison of policy indicators for 25 cities.
The Lancet Global Health, 10(6), e882–e894. https://doi.org/10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00069-9
Bucchi, M., & Trench, B. (2021). Routledge Handbook of Public Communication of Science and
Technology. Routledge.
Tse, T. K.-C., & Lee, M. H. (2016). Making Sense of Education in Post-Handover Hong Kong:
Achievements and challenges. London & New York: Taylor & Francis.
Gates, B. (2021). How to Avoid a Climate Disaster: The Solutions We Have and the
Breakthroughs We Need (Large type / Large print edition). Random House Large Print.
Wong, Y. C. R. (2015). Hong Kong Land for Hong Kong People: Fixing the Failures of Our
Housing Policy. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press.
Cropf, R., A. (2016). Ethical Issues and Citizen Rights in the Era of Digital Government
Surveillance. Hershey, PA: IGI Global.
Wadham, J., Harris, K., & Peretz, G. (2011). Blackstone’s Guide to the Freedom of Information
Act 2000 (4th ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.

-END-

9

